Seeing as Latin 101 was my first ever class on the Latin language, I anticipated that many facets of the language and its complexities would be completely unfamiliar to me. For the most part, I was right. I am a native English speaker, and took about 6 years of Spanish throughout high school and middle school. While Latin is deeply ingrained in both of these languages, the majority of linguistic topics that we covered were as I had expected: unfamiliar. However, what I did not anticipate learning about was the impacts that Latin had beyond just influencing other languages.  
One example that stood out to me from the very beginning was an article that was read and discussed during a practicum session. It was about how actions that may seem charitable to one person can unintentionally bring shame to another. Through the discussions that took place during the practicum, a clear parallel to our CBL work began to reveal itself. Although we never actually got to work with children in the community, the article’s message stuck with me. I knew that in order to be the most effective teacher for future CBL sessions, I had to take into account how privileged I am to be able to study Latin.  
I grew up in a relatively well-to-do suburban area and recognized that I have had it easier than most. But without what I had learned in that practicum session, as well as the following sessions, I fear I might have neglected to try to see my CBL work through the eyes of a community that has not been afforded the opportunities that I have. Since I have learned this lesson, I feel much more prepared and confident for what lies ahead. Though I am confident, I also recognize that I have never done anything quite like this before, so I will be eager to learn from those more experienced than me.
